Advancing Access in Housing Nationally:
Fact Sheet on Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) Accessibility Requirements
LIHTC, the nation’s primary driver of affordable housing,
does not have any in-unit requirements for mobility or
sensory access, contributing to the severe shortage of
accessible, affordable housing for people with disabilities.
While 11.1% of people have serious difficulty walking or
climbing stairs1, less than 1% of the US housing stock
is accessible to wheelchair users and less than 5% is
accessible to people with mobility difficulties2. For people
with sensory and other disabilities, this shortage is equal
or greater.
The shortage of affordable, accessible housing means
disabled people and older adults, along with their
families, experience higher rates of housing insecurity,
homelessness, and institutionalization.
States by (%) with
requirements:

26%

14%
18%

Requires more than 504 (4%)
Requires 504 (26%)
Requirements less than 504 (14%)
Incentives for accessible units (18%)
No requirements (38%)

• 5% of the dwelling
units be accessible for
persons with mobility
disabilities
• 2% of the dwelling
units are accessible for
persons with hearing or
visual disabilities

State-by-State Progress

4%

38%

Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act3 creates
a uniform requirement of:

Many states are demonstrating leadership
in accessible housing by already mandating
or incentivizing access in their housing
programs and funding in the following ways:
• A requirement for developments to
follow Section 504
• A requirement for developments to build
units beyond what Section 504 requires
• Other accessibility requirement less
than what 504 requires
• Incentive structures where additional
points are awarded for constructing
accessible units

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Disability Impacts All of Us
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of Policy Development and Research, Accessibility of America’s housing stock: Analysis
of the 2011 American Housing Survey (AHS).
3
Section 504 requirements are included in the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS)
1

2

thekelsey.org

States by (#) with requirements:

*
*

Requires more than 504 (2)
Incentives for accessible units (9)

Requires 504 (13)
No Requirements

*

*

Requirements less than 504 (7)
Only 9%

Disability-Forward LIHTC Reform
The population of older adults and people with disabilities is rapidly growing. We cannot wait
for all 50 states to implement individual standards. The federal government can ensure that no
matter what state disabled people live in they have accessible housing by requiring that LIHTC
follow the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS).
There can also be impactful incentives for projects that construct accessible or adaptable units
beyond what is required by UFAS, utilizing resources like The Housing Design Standards for
Accessibility and Inclusion. These requirements and incentives will not only drastically increase
the supply of affordable, accessible, and inclusive housing, but they will also create uniformity
and clear guidelines for the affordable housing industry regarding access.
For more information on federal and state data and disability-forward LIHTC advocacy, contact
hunter@thekelsey.org.
4

Able to be made accessible without structural changes

thekelsey.org

